to 15 and you can't do the same thing
with the colon. Now that is the main
difference between the sequence and the
colon and plus sequence can be even
more flexibility but we'll explore that
further down the course. Now let's say we
want to save a vector that we generate
the sequence will say is that and we'll
put into the selector a sequence of
numbers from 1 to 15 for step of four
and generate that and let's print that
out as you can see here we've generated
1590 13 and there's no 15 and that is
because that's how sequence works it's a
pretty smart function so it knows that
you want numbers between 1 and 15 and if
you add for on top of 13 you'll get 17
so you kind of get out of that border
that she specified and sequence won't
generate that number so you will always
you're always guaranteed that you will
be between these two numbers even if the
step doesn't fit in perfectly into that
those borders that you've created.
Ok so that was sequence for you. Now
let's look at the last way of creating
vectors that we wanted to color off
today and that is replicate so in order
to replicate we need type in R EP then
we need to specify something that we
want to replicate let's say we want to
replicate number three and we want to
replicate it 50 times so let's run that
what you'll see is the number three has
been replicated 50 times and this is all
one very long vector so I can put in put
this vector into a variable or give it a
name and then also a rep 3, 50 but there
we go so there is d and there's the
vector 12
that's how many elements that has and
they're all the number three
by the way here you can see that there's
a square bracket one which we've been
seen so far all over the place but here
you have square bracket percent what
does that mean?
Well that means that you have 36
elements up to there and then this is
the 37, 38, 39
so basically it will just enumerate them
for you so if i say a hundred you'll see
it will tell you which element you are
looking at the start of that row.
Alright and one last thing I wanted to
show you is actually two last things you
can replicate a character of course so a
for instance and let's say we want to
see it five times
there we go that's a character vector of
5a's and also what you can do is you can
replicate even vector so let's create a
vector X and we'll put two numbers in
there will say 80, 20 and now we want to
replicate x 10x. So there we go now we
have a vector so if we put this into
vector Y now we have a vector of 20
elements of 20 numbers and their 80 20 80
between 80 20 and so on so there we go
that's how you create vectors in R those
are the many different ways when we
talked about was just the combined
function we also talked about the
sequence function, the rep function,
replicate function and we also learned
how to check the type so is America's
integer is double and also is capture
hope you enjoyed this tutorial have a
play around with that practice some
vectors create some vectors that come
into your mind and see how you go see
what different combinations of these
functions you can use and what different
vectors you can create because as always
say programming is about practicing
practicing and practicing again and
experimenting with what you're learning
and I look forward to seeing you next
time.
Until then happy coding.
's see what our town is not true
indeed our does toward this whole vector
as a vector of doubles because it is
anticipating that we will require some
arithmetic operations down the line so
to mix it up let's create a vector of
true integers this time we'll say C and
now we'll put in some integers but
remember to put the store integers an
integer you need to add the letter L on
the end so 12l let's say 243 l and let's
say 0l ok now if we run this code you
will see that here it says int and bear
in mind that this is still also a
numeric vector as well so we can check
that we can say is dot numeric and b2 it
is an American actor and that is because
of what we discussed that a numeric and
conferences both integers and doubles so
now if we check is integer and we check
me too
you'll see that it's true and of course
is double will be false.
Ok so because it is stored as an integer
and that is because we specified that
letter L on and as you can see here the
where L is not in place anymore just
showing that this is indeed just a way
to tell our hottest stories verbal or
these numbers.
ok so let's continue, let's see what else
we can do with vectors.
How about a character vector? We talked
about character pictures in the princess
turtle is create a character picture so
let's say V 3 x3 we can give it any name
actually whatever name you like and
let's put into this vector values C so
that's combined and we'll put those a be
23 that will say hello and that's all
for now so let's maybe make this a
capital and let's run this code so v3
as you can see it has been created it's
a character vector of three elements 123
and it has those elements if I printed
out now, I'll get the character vector.
Awesome and what we can do is we can
check its character v three.
It's true and just for argument's sake
let's check if it's numeric it is not
numeric.
Alright so now let's test that thing
that we talked about that a vector can
only have data elements of the same
basic type so you cannot mix different
types inside one vector which is a very
important thing to remember and also to
understand so let's add that same number
so another number seven right and as we
know from here although it's an integer
will be stored as a double so we expect
that we'll have characters and a double
mastectomy so if we run this vector now
and then we printed out you will see
that the number 7 has actually being
converted to capture and that is because
they cannot convert a character to a
number but it is very simple to convert
a character or a number to a character
all you have to do is just put quotation
marks around it so it's no longer a
number and therefore this vector is
still account
vector which we can check here is the
character actually and it's not a
numeric vector now this is an important
thing to remember because so your boy
situation like this where you try to put
different elements into one vector and
also it is important to understand
because that is like a conceptual
fundamental principle of R. It relies
very heavily on the fact that within a
vector you can only find data elements
of the same basic type and we'll talk
more about this fundamental principle
further down in future tutorials, but for
know, it's good to know and to
remember.
Alright so as you can see creating
vectors isn't that hard
now let's explore what other ways there
are to create vectors but we're going to
discuss two more functions. Two more
functions which are very intuitive and
straightforward one is called the
sequence so seq and then the brackets
after it and I'll just put in the name
here sequence and it's very similar to
the operator which is the colon which
we've been using quite a bit and the
other one is replicate so r EP and it
stands for replicate all right so let's
start with sequence.
Let's say I want to create a sequence of
numbers from 1 to 15 that casing to call
the sequence function and positive the
parameters one common 15 so the start of
the sequence commerce the animal
sequence and if I run this now what
you'll see is that we've got the members
1:15 now what does this remind you of?
To remind you of 1 colon 15 this is the
expression that we've used so far in the
previous tutorials to generate a
sequence and as you can see the results
are exactly the same so basically a 1
colon 15 is identical to sequence one
comma 15. In fact it can get a bit
confusing there some of that when I was
learning R, I used to type in 1 colon
15 instead of one comma 15 and it still
works and that confused me a lot because
then I thought then you don't need the
function around it or the comma is
the same as a colon and that was a long
story I really had to take some time and
understanding to forget the head and
find out to remember understand the
correct approach so just remember that
inside function use a comma and then
there's this other fast way using a
colon now so why would you use sequence
if you have the colon version.
Well that is because the sequence gives
you a bit more flexibility with sequins
you can say 12:15 and then you can plus
an additional time at which will be the
steps so i might say 12:15 with the step
of two and that will give me 1 357 so
we'll give me all the odd numbers fr